See below for the German version. Deutsche Version siehe unten.


* Renoise Licensing Agreement * 

Preamble 

In his capacity as legal proprietor, Eduard Mueller, Glatzer Strasse 6, 10247 Berlin, (hereafter "the licensor") grants the licensee of the "Renoise" computer programme, including all integral parts thereof pursuant to Paragraph 1, No. 1 of this agreement (hereafter "software"), the right to use the software. The licensee may use this software solely in accordance with the following conditions.


§ 1 Purpose

1.	The purpose of this agreement is:
  a.	when acquiring the full version: the current version of the computer programme intended for sale at the time of purchase, including all parts, in particular the operating instructions;

  b.	when testing the demo version: the version of the computer programme in each licensee's possession intended for testing and limited in its range of functions, including all parts, in particular the operating instructions.

2.	The licensor has all the rights to the software. In this agreement, the licensor grants the licensee the right to use the software.



§ 2 Scope of the Rights of Use

1.	The licensor hereby gives the licensee a simple, non-exclusive, permanent, worldwide, non-sub-licensable right to the software which is linked to the licensee's person (hereafter "the licence"). All those rights not expressly transferred, in particular rights to publish, reproduce, process and patent rights, remain with the licensor. This agreement governs the precise content of this licence.

2.	If the licensee acquires the software on a data carrier put into circulation by the licensor, it will only acquire ownership to the data carrier, not the software itself. Rights to the software will be oriented exclusively to this agreement.


§ 3 Content of the Licence

1.	The licensee may install the software on as many computers as it wishes for its own use. The licensee may reproduce the installed software permanently or temporarily, wholly or partially, if and as long as the loading, running, transferring or storing the computer programme requires reproducing.

2.	The licensee is required to ensure that, at no time, anyone other than he himself works with an installation of the software. Installation in networks is also permissible under this condition. Simultaneous use of several installations of the software by the licensee personally is permitted.

3.	Apart from installation, the licensee may make copies of the software for backup purposes to the required and usual extent.


§ 4 Transferability of the Licence

1.	The transfer of the licence to third parties is only permitted if the third party agrees to be bound by all rights and duties arising from this licensing agreement. In this case the licensee is required to inform the licensor of the transfer of the licence; the licensor will then supply the third party with a personalised original of the software.

2.	The licensee will then be required to hand over the complete original software and destroy immediately all copies in his possession. Installed and electronically stored copies are to be deleted in such a way that they cannot be recreated.


§ 5 Copyright

1.	The software is protected by copyright. All copyright remains with the licensor.

2.	Copyright notes and registration numbers may be removed neither from the software itself nor from any back-up copies.


§ 6 Express Forbidden Uses

1.	The licensee is expressly forbidden to:
  a.	alter, translate, reverse engineer, decompile or disassemble the software. This also applies in deviation from Section 69d, Subsection 1, of the German Copyright Act for correcting errors;
  
  b.	translate, process, arrange or rework the software, including its component parts;
  
  c.	create derivative works of the software, including its component parts.
  
  d.	copy, reproduce or disseminate the software, partially or wholly, in its original or altered form unless this agreement specifically permits something else. This also expressly includes dissemination included in other software or mixed with other software and wired or wireless public broadcasting of, or permitting access to, the software.

  e.  reformat, mix, filter, re-synthesize, edit or alter the sound samples and other musical content connected to the software for use in any kind of commercial sampling product/package or software, without the express written consent of the licensor.

2.	The provision in Paragraph 2 No. 1 of this agreement remains unaffected.


§ 7 Breach of Licence, Forfeiture

1.	If the licensee breaches the conditions of this licensing agreement, all rights of use granted will expire. In this case he will be required to immediately destroy the original software and any back-up copies or, if requested, return them to the licensor. Installations and electronically stored copies are to be deleted in such a way that they cannot be recreated. 

2.	The licensee is liable to the licensor for all damage arising from breaches of this agreement.   


§ 8 Liability of the Licensor

1.	The licensor is liable in cases of intent and gross negligence as provided by law. He is also liable in case of negligent breaches of duty whose fulfilment makes possible the due performance of this agreement at all, the breach of which endangers the achieving of the purpose of the agreement and on whose observation the acquirer regularly relies. In the case or negligent breach of such duties, liability is limited to the foreseeable damage typical in agreements of this type.

2.	The licensor is not liable in cases of minor breaches of other duties.

3.	The above liability exemptions do not apply in cases of death, injury or illness.


§ 9 Ancillary Agreements, Choice of Law, Prorogation, Saving Clause

1.	No oral agreements have been made. Amendments, including to this provision, must be in writing.

2.	The laws of the Federal Republic of Germany apply to the exclusion of the provisions of the UN Convention on the International Sale of Goods. The language of the agreement is German.

3.	This agreement has been translated into several other languages. In the case of contradictions, matters of interpretation and lack of clarity, the German version will take precedence over the other versions.

4.	If the parties are either merchants or legal entities in public law, the sole legal venue for all disputes arising from this agreement is Berlin, Federal Republic of Germany.

5.	The legal validity of a provision will not affect the legal validity of the other provisions. The parties undertake to replace a legally invalid provision with a legally valid provision which comes as close as possible to the desired effect of the legally invalid provision and which best corresponds to the purpose of the agreement.



* Renoise Lizenzvertrag *

Präambel 

Eduard Müller, Glatzer Str. 6, 10247 Berlin (im Folgenden „Lizenzgeber“) als Rechtsinhaber gewährt dem Lizenznehmer des Computerprogrammes „Renoise“ einschließlich sämtlicher Bestandteile gem. § 1 Ziff. 1 dieser Vereinbarung (im Folgenden „Software“) ein Nutzungsrecht an der Software. Die Benutzung der Software durch den Lizenznehmer erfolgt ausschließlich zu den nachfolgenden Bedingungen.


§ 1 Gegenstand

1.	Gegenstand dieser Vereinbarung ist
  a.	Bei einem Erwerb der Vollversion: das Computerprogramm in der zum Zeitpunkt des Erwerbs aktuellen, für den Vertrieb vorgesehenen Version einschließlich sämtlicher Bestandteile, insbesondere der Bedienungsanleitung.
  
  b.	Bei einem Test der Demoversion: das Computerprogramm in der jeweils dem Lizenznehmer vorliegenden, für den Test vorgesehenen und im Funktionsumfang eingeschränkten Version einschließlich sämtlicher Bestandteile, insbesondere der Bedienungsanleitung.

2.	Der Lizenzgeber ist Inhaber sämtlicher Nutzungsrechte an der Software. Mit dieser Vereinbarung gewährt der Lizenzgeber dem Lizenznehmer Nutzungsrechte an der Software.


§ 2 Umfang des Nutzungsrechts

1.	Der Lizenzgeber erteilt dem Lizenznehmer hiermit ein einfaches, nicht ausschließliches, dauerhaftes, weltweites, nicht unterlizenzierbares und an die Person des Lizenznehmers gebundenes Nutzungsrecht an der Software (im Folgenden „Lizenz“). Sämtliche nicht ausdrücklich übertragenen Rechte, insbesondere Veröffentlichungs-, Vervielfältigungs-, Bearbeitungs- und Verwertungsrechte, verbleiben beim Lizenzgeber. Den genauen Inhalt der Lizenz regelt diese Vereinbarung.

2.	Soweit der Lizenznehmer die Software auf einem vom Lizenzgeber in den Verkehr gebrachten Datenträger erwirbt, erlangt er durch den Erwerb lediglich Eigentum an dem Datenträger, nicht jedoch irgendwelche Rechte an der Software selbst. Rechte an der Software richten sich ausschließlich nach dieser Vereinbarung.


§ 3 Inhalt der Lizenz

1.	Der Lizenznehmer darf die Software auf beliebig vielen Computern zu seiner eigenen Verwendung installieren. Der Lizenznehmer darf die installierte Software dauerhaft oder vorübergehend ganz oder teilweise Vervielfältigen, soweit und solange das Laden, Anzeigen, Ablaufen, Übertragen oder Speichern des Computerprogramms eine Vervielfältigung erfordert.

2.	Der Lizenznehmer hat sicherzustellen, dass zu keiner Zeit jemand anderes als er selber mit einer Installation der Software arbeitet. Unter dieser Voraussetzung ist auch eine Installation in Netzwerken zulässig. Eine gleichzeitige Nutzung mehrerer Installationen der Software durch den Lizenznehmer persönlich ist gestattet.

3.	Zu Sicherungszwecken darf der Lizenznehmer unabhängig von einer Installation Kopien von der Software im erforderlichen und üblichen Umfang erstellen.


§ 4 Übertragbarkeit der Lizenz

1.	Eine Übertragung der Lizenz auf Dritte ist nur zulässig, wenn die dritte Partei der Übernahme sämtlicher Rechte und Pflichten aus diesem Lizenzvertrag zustimmt. Der Lizenznehmer hat in diesem Fall dem Lizenzgeber die Übertragung der Lizenz mitzuteilen; der Lizenzgeber stellt dann dem Dritten ein auf diesen personalisiertes Original der Software zur Verfügung.

2.	Der Lizenznehmer hat die vollständige Originalsoftware zu übergeben und unverzüglich sämtliche noch in seinem Besitz befindlichen Kopien zu vernichten. Installationen und elektronisch gespeicherte Kopien sind in einer die Wiederherstellung ausschließenden Weise zu löschen.


§ 5 Urheberrecht

1.	Die Software ist urheberrechtlich geschützt. Sämtliche Urheberrechte liegen bei dem Lizenzgeber.

2.	Urheberrechtsvermerke und Registriernummern dürfen weder in der Software selbst noch in eventuell erstellten Sicherungskopien entfernt werden.


§ 6 Ausdrückliche Verwendungsverbote

1.	Dem Lizenznehmer ist es ausdrücklich untersagt:
  a.	Die Software abzuändern, zu übersetzen, zurückzuentwickeln, zu decompilieren oder zu disassemblieren. Dies gilt abweichend von § 69d Abs. 1 UrhG auch für die Fehlerberichtigung.

  b.	Die Software einschließlich ihrer Bestandteile zu übersetzen, zu bearbeiten, zu arrangieren oder umzuarbeiten.

  c.	Abgeleitete Werke aus der Software einschließlich ihrer Bestandteile zu erstellen.

  d.	Die Software ganz oder teilweise in ursprünglicher oder abgeänderter Form zu kopieren, zu vervielfältigen oder zu verbreiten, soweit nicht diese Vereinbarung etwas anderes konkret gestattet. Dies schließt ausdrücklich auch die Verbreitung eingeschlossen in andere Software oder vermischt mit anderer Software sowie die drahtgebundene oder drahtlose öffentliche Wiedergabe oder Zugänglichmachung der Software ein.

  e.  Die Klänge und andere musikalische Bestandteile der Software ohne ausdrückliche Genehmigung des Lizenzgebers in ursprünglicher oder auch abgeänderter Form in einem anderen kommerziellen Produkt oder Software zu verwenden.

2.	Die Regelung des § 2 Ziff. 1 dieser Vereinbarung bleibt unberührt.


§ 7 Lizenzverstoß, Verwirkung

1.	Verstößt der Lizenznehmer gegen die Bedingungen dieses Lizenzertrages, erlöschen sämtliche eingeräumten Nutzungsrechte. In diesem Fall hat er unverzüglich die Originalsoftware und eventuelle Sicherungskopien zu vernichten oder auf Anforderung dem Lizenzgeber zu übergeben. Installationen und elektronisch gespeicherte Kopien sind in einer die Wiederherstellung ausschließenden Weise zu löschen.

2.	Der Lizenznehmer haftet dem Lizenzgeber für sämtliche aus Vertragsverletzungen entstehende Schäden.


§ 8 Haftung des Lizenzgebers

1.	Der Lizenzgeber haftet bei Vorsatz und grober Fahrlässigkeit nach den gesetzlichen Regeln. Er haftet ferner bei der fahrlässigen Verletzung von Pflichten, deren Erfüllung die ordnungsgemäße Durchführung des Vertrages überhaupt erst ermöglicht, deren Verletzung die Erreichung des Vertragszwecks gefährdet und auf deren Einhaltung der Erwerber regelmäßig vertraut. Bei einer fahrlässigen Verletzung derartiger Pflichten ist die Haftung auf den vorhersehbaren, vertragstypischen Schaden begrenzt.

2.	Der Lizenzgeber haftet nicht bei leicht fahrlässiger Verletzung anderer Pflichten.

3.	Die vorstehenden Haftungsausschlüsse gelten nicht bei Verletzung von Leben, Körper und Gesundheit.


§ 9 Nebenabreden, Rechtswahl, Prorogation, Salvatorische Klausel

1.	Mündliche Nebenabreden sind nicht getroffen. Änderungen, auch dieser Regelung, und Ergänzungen dieser Vereinbarung bedürfen der Schriftform.

2.	Es gilt das Recht der Bundesrepublik Deutschland unter Ausschluss des UN-Kaufrechts. Vertragssprache ist Deutsch.

3.	Dieser Vertrag wird mehrsprachig ausgefertigt. Bei Widersprüchen, Auslegungsfragen und anderen Unklarheiten geht die deutsche Fassung den übrigen Fassungen vor.

4.	Sind die Parteien jeweils entweder Kaufmann oder eine juristische Person des öffentlichen Rechts, ist ausschließlicher Gerichtsstand für alle Streitigkeiten aus diesem Vertrag Berlin, Bundesrepublik Deutschland.

5.	Die Rechtsunwirksamkeit einer Bestimmung dieser Vereinbarung berührt die Rechtswirksamkeit der übrigen Teile nicht. Die Parteien verpflichten sich, eine unwirksame Bestimmung durch eine wirksame Regelung zu ersetzen, die der unwirksamen im Ergebnis am nächsten kommt und dem Vertragszweck am besten entspricht.
